David: Somewhere between
10% and 20% of the population are people
with disabilities, right?
So if we're looking at working age persons
with disabilities, for example,
I think we're going to use the American
Community Survey number, which is around
12.5% of the population
as people with disabilities.
Within that,
there is a cure for some disease.
There is somebody who can invent
a better widget or,
you know, provide a better service
or be a leader
in some way that can help
improve the human condition for everybody.
So I'm interested in discovering
that and trying to bring that out.
And so I think you do that by talking about it,
by having a dialog and trying
to move things forward.
[music plays]
Kerry: So you think about disability as
an entire group, but there are subgroups.
There are women with disability,
there are youth with disability,
there are persons with intellectual
disability, persons with DeafBlindness.
Now those groups tend to be left out.
What we've been doing in the last
15 years has been about really trying
to pull out the voices from the shadow
and put them in the spotlight
and making sure that those marginalized
voices, such as persons
with DeafBlindness like myself,
were part of the conversation.
Fatou: Someone's got to step up
and utilize these platforms
to get the word out there and let society
know what they need to know.
The DeafBlind community,
as well as the greater blind community,
are a small population,
and because we're so few and far between,
people don't know much about us.
We're not often recognized, but we still
have to keep getting that message out there.
Elaine: I would say that if you want to
learn more about DeafBlind people
You have to get fully involved
with the community. Immerse yourself.
We can learn from each other.
And you can learn about our problems and our struggles.
So get out and just meet people.
It’s not about just being preached to
and preached, and preach, and preach,
and preach about what to do.
Get to meet us, and know us first.
David: Well really that is
the goal, is to make this topic
more common
so that more people discuss it.
If more people discuss it,
there'll be more ideas.
If there's more ideas,
then there can be more assistance
for people with disabilities
to be more independent, more
self-determined, and have more freedom.
Sarah: Nowadays, are people more aware of people
with disabilities compared to before?
Yes. Where a long time ago
that wasn't even allowed.
If you had any mental disability,
then you were put into an asylum,
so you were segregated.
And now we have deaf schools,
we have blind schools, you know,
so we have all those
specialized schools.
So it's gone through
an evolution of its own.
However, being aware is different
than understanding
how you treat people with disabilities.
That's what's really important.
Fatou: What I want the general public
and society, people
who are not very familiar with DeafBlind
community and DeafBlind culture, to know
is that if there's anything that strikes
you as funny, just ask us about it.
Be open minded.
The more you ask,
the more you'll understand.
Kerry: That's why it's so important to understand
that disability is something that
we should all be invested in and learning
how to do better by all people.
Fatou: The future is what you make it.
But the question is,
will we be noticed more?
Because what we have now isn't enough
and it could be so much more.
DeafBlind people just need to be
invited in into areas like acting,
sports, really, anywhere
we can get recognition.
So let's do something about that.
Get more of that.
David: Putting people with disabilities
in places where other
people with disabilities
can say, “Well, I want to do that,”
or, “look at what that person has achieved.
I can achieve that.
If that person did it, I can do it.”
And so I just think back
throughout history that, how many times
that's been done where somebody has read
a book and said, “I want to be like that”
or watched a film and said, “I
want to be like that” or read an article
that said, “I want to do that”
or “that's inspired me to do that.”
And so the story
for people with disabilities,
the more that it's told,
more people with disabilities
have an opportunity to say,
“Well, I want to do that.”
[music ends]